[whooshing]
[whooshing intensifies]
[stops]
[Bobby Shafran] When I tell people
my story, they don't believe it.
I guess I wouldn't believe the story
if someone else were telling it,
but I'm telling it and it's true,
every word of it.
It started when I was born,
56 years ago,
but the real story began
when I was 19 years old,
when I went to college.
It was 1980.
It was the first day of school
at Sullivan County Community College
up in the Catskills,
about 110 miles from where I grew up.
So I drove up there alone.
[Shafran] I used to have
this really old car.
It was a Volvo.
And it was a 1970 Volvo.
Had like 130,000 miles on it.
And the car was burgundy
and the hood was green.
Actually, the car
was called the Old Bitch.
But the Old Bitch got me there.
Sullivan was a community college.
This wasn't some long-standing institution
of higher learning.
All these station wagons
are dropping kids off.
I was nervous.
I'd just gotten to the school.
I didn't know anybody. I was a freshman.
I was never the captain
of the football team in high school,
so I was never really, like, popular.
So I'm walking around,
trying to find where my dorm is.
Meanwhile, all these people
are coming up to me
saying, "Hi. How are you?"
"How was your summer?"
"Mine was great. How was yours?" "Super."
Why are they asking me
how my summer was? I don't know.
Everybody's being
extremely friendly to me.
And they're going out
of their way to do it.
I don't mean just a "hi."
I mean, claps on the back and high fives.
[grunts]
And I was a little bit bewildered by this
because no one gets this kind of a welcome
their first day at school.
And girls were kissing me,
like fully kissing me,
saying, "I'm so glad you came back."
And I was saying, "Thank you."
And "Hello" back,
but I had never been there before
and I didn't know them.
It was bizarre.
And the next thing I heard
from right behind me,
"Welcome back, Eddy.
"Eddy, how are you? Eddy, hi."
I'm like, "My name's not Eddy.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I just got up here."
"Sure, Eddy. You're really funny.
You're really funny. Real funny."
I'm like "I'm not Eddy.
I don't know who Eddy is."
"Welcome back, Eddy,"
they were all saying.
I'd finally made it to this dump
of a dorm room.
And before a minute had gone by...
-[knocking on door]
-Who now?
Who now is gonna come to find Eddy?
I had been at college
the previous year with Eddy,
and I knew that
he wasn't coming back to school.
As soon as this guy turned around,
I... I was... I was actually shaking.
I was... I know all color
from my face dropped
'cause I knew it was his double.
He had the same grin,
the same hair, the same expressions.
It was his double.
And I see this guy's face,
and he's like...
Just standing there.
The first thing out of my mouth
was, "Were you adopted?"
And I was like, "Yes."
I said, "Is your birthday July 12?"
He said, "Yes."
I was like, "July 12, 1961."
"Oh, my God." I said,
"You're not gonna believe this."
I said, "You have a twin brother.
You have a twin."
Oh, my God.
I said, "Come with me."
And the two of us are crammed
into this phone booth,
shoulder to shoulder.
And, you know, we just, like,
closed the door of the phone booth.
And I'm trying to put the coins in,
and they keep falling on the floor,
and Bobby's picking up the coins.
And he calls this guy,
and he's like, "Hey, Eddy,
you're not gonna believe this.
You're not gonna believe this.
Eddy, Eddy,
you're not gonna believe this."
This guy's more hysterical than I am.
Like weirded out.
"Eddy, you're not gonna believe this."
So I was like, "Give me the phone."
So I said, "Hi, Eddy."
"Yes?"
But it was my voice that said, "Yes?"
And I said, "Hi, Eddy.
My name is Robert Shafran,
and, um, I'm meeting all these people
who say I'm you."
And he said, "Uh-huh.
Yeah, I've been getting some calls."
I said, "Were you adopted?"
He said, "Yes."
And I said, "When was your birthday?"
"July 12."
And I said, "Do you know what the name
of the agency was?"
And he said, "No. Hold on."
And I heard him go like, "Mom?"
And he came back and said,
"Louise Wise Services."
Sometimes, when you are
just having a dream
and you know this can't be real...
This can't be real!
But you know there's nothing
you can do to stop it,
start it, change it.
You just go with it,
and that's what I was doing.
I just wanted to see
what was gonna happen next.
And I'm like, "Let's go.
Let's go meet Eddy."
So we got into the Old Bitch.
[car engine starts]
It was about nine o'clock at night,
and it's about a two-hour ride.
And we were speeding on Route 17.
We were going a hundred miles per hour,
perhaps more.
We were speeding.
We're driving as fast
as this car would go.
It was shaking.
[car engine revving]
And we got pulled over
by a New York state trooper.
[siren blaring]
And as I roll down my window,
there's this gigantic cop
with, like, the sunglasses,
even though it's nighttime,
and the big hat.
He said, "You know,
I clocked you at 88 in a 50.
Son, you better have
a really good reason."
And I was like, "Well, Officer,
you're never gonna believe this."
The two of us are, like,
yelling at this guy.
"You don't know!
This guy... This guy has a twin brother.
"He was adopted, and we're going
to Long Island to go see..."
And the guy was, "Yeah, right.
"Yeah. Here's your ticket.
Have a good day."
[Domnitz] And on to Long Island we went.
[Shafran] So we got there.
But it's like the middle of the night.
And it's this really quiet neighborhood.
So we get out of the car
and I walked up this little path
to the house.
The lights were on in the house.
And I reached out to knock on the door,
and as I reached out
to knock on the door, it opens.
And here I am.
His eyes are my eyes,
and my eyes are his eyes,
and it's true.
[Domnitz] They looked exactly alike.
They're duplicates of each other.
There was no doubt in my mind
that they were twins.
He's going, "Oh, my God."
I'm going, "Oh, my God."
He's going, "Holy crap."
I'm going, "Holy crap."
They just looked at each other
and they moved.
Every time Bobby moved his head,
Eddy moved,
And then Eddy would move
and then Bobby would move.
Like they were looking at a mirror.
It was the weirdest thing.
[Shafran]
It was like the world faded away...
And it was just me and Eddy.
[Howard Schneider] So I'm in the newsroom.
And it's the middle of a busy day.
We got a call from somebody who says
they have an amazing story to tell us.
We're not gonna believe this story.
And my first reaction, "Ah, it's a hoax."
So I told our reporter,
"I want to rent a plane."
In those days,
we had enough money to do this.
"I want to rent a plane.
I want to see these two kids face-to-face
or I don't believe this."
We flew the journalist up
to Sullivan Community College,
and he called me, and he said,
"Howie, it's true. It's true."
And I remember saying, "Oh, my God.
This is a great story."
This is a memorable, heartwarming story.
And then the story went from being amazing
to incredible.
Okay? From amazing to incredible.
[subway cars rattling]
[Ellen Cervone]
I was on the New York subway.
Quite late at night.
Read an article about two boys
who found each other that were twins
separated at birth
and found each other
at Sullivan County Community College.
There was no picture,
but the story was fascinating.
I came home and went to sleep.
My mother came into the room
and said, "Wake up, wake up.
I have to show you something."
And she shows me a newspaper...
With a picture of two boys.
And I had to, like, focus,
and I looked at the photograph
and I said, "Is that David?"
And she's like,
"No, but look at the hands."
And I was like, "Holy mackerel.
This is beyond amazing."
There was a picture in the newspaper
of two guys, in the Post.
And I picked up the picture,
and I looked at it.
And I was, like, in shock,
'cause the two guys in the Post
look exactly, exactly
like my friend David.
I stared at it.
And it wasn't even just
the look on their face.
It was the way
they were holding their hands.
They have these big, meaty hands,
and David always had these hands
that looked like baseball mitts.
And when I saw their hands...
I just knew that this is David.
[David Kellman] It was just a normal day.
I got to school, ran into my buddy, Alan.
He said, "David, take a look at this."
And he's got a copy of the New York Post.
And, um, he opens it up.
He says, "Look at this. Look familiar?"
Something to that effect.
And I said, "Yeah, right.
[scoffs] Sure."
But then we looked at it
a little bit more closely.
It was an article. It said,
"Twins reunited after more than 19 years."
And it had a picture of two
of what looked like me.
It all started to sink in.
Holy shit. Oh, my God.
Do you... Do... This is not believable.
This is unbelievable.
Wow. This... This is big.
This is serious.
This is just not some kind
of crazy coincidence.
This is not a minor resemblance.
This is real. This is happening.
This is really, really serious.
I ditched classes and got home.
My mother was waiting
at the kitchen table with a cup of coffee.
And I said, "Mom, you see this?"
She said, "You see this?"
And we kind of exchanged newspapers.
It had,
"Born in Long Island Jewish Hospital."
July 12, 1961.
And it was Louise Wise Adoption Agency.
I mean, I always knew growing up
that I was adopted.
My parents were always open about it.
But it said Eddy Galland
of New Hyde Park, Long Island,
Robert Shafran of Scarsdale, New York.
I remember it said, "Son of prominent
Scarsdale physician, Mort Shafran."
And, uh, my first thought...
I said, "He's got the wealthy family.
[chuckles]
This SOB's probably driving a Benz.
He got a doctor." [laughs]
[Luchs] And I remember being
with David in the kitchen.
We were, like, really nervous.
I mean, we were,
you know, jumping around.
You know, we were 19 years old.
I mean, this was surreal.
And David picked up the phone.
And he called information,
and he reached Eddy's mom.
And I said, "Hi. Is Eddy home?"
She says, "No. Who's calling, please?"
And I thought, "Okay, now I gotta go
into this whole thing on the phone."
I said, "Well, my name is David Kellman,
and I was born July 12, 1961,
and I'm looking at a newspaper,
and, uh, basically, I think
I'm looking at two of me.
I think I might be the third."
And I think she dropped
the phone, actually.
And I remember hearing her voice
over the phone.
"Oh, my God.
They're coming out of the woodwork."
[Hedy Page] It was a miracle.
The first time that the boys met together,
the three together, was at my house.
And the three of them ended up
like puppies wrestling on the floor.
It was the most incredible...
It was the most incredible thing.
They belong to each other.
They knew each other.
There was no formal introduction.
I mean, when you meet somebody
for the first time,
you don't end up rolling around
on the floor with them.
It was truly not fully believable.
Even though it was happening,
it was still surreal.
You think you're dreaming.
You're looking.
You're still, "Oh, my God."
You're looking the other way.
"Oh, my God."
And then you realize
that they're looking at you
or everybody else is looking at you too.
To have all three of them
in the house at one time,
it was really madness.
[Elliott Galland] My emotions were shock,
shock, and more shock.
I mean...
I can't... I can't explain it.
I haven't got the terminology.
[Schneider] One of our reporters
came running over to me
and said, "You're not gonna believe this.
You are not gonna believe
the call we just got.
You know the two kids
on the front page today?
Well, there's a third."
They even moved the same way.
All of just sat back
and watched three separate lives...
Becoming one.
The way I put it was
I look more like Eddy than I did David
and more like David than I did Eddy
and more like either of them
than they did like each other.
Does that make sense?
And then we started comparing notes.
What do 19-year-olds compare?
[laughs]
Booze, cigarettes, food,
women, music, cars.
And I had just bought a brand new
Mercury Capri, which I loved.
And Bobby had this maroon,
beat-up old Volvo
with cracked leather seats,
and I'm thinking... [laughs]
"Son of prominent
Scarsdale physician, huh?"
[laughs]
[Schneider] I think it was Eddy
who said, right at the beginning,
"I don't know if this will turn out
to be great or terrible."
So there was always a question mark,
a big question mark,
about where this story
eventually was going.
We didn't realize from then on
just how much things were gonna change.
Now, one of the most remarkable stories
I've seen in some time.
A story about triplets.
[Tom Brokaw] Eddy and Robert and David,
reunited after 19 years.
We have a story about triplets
that gives new meaning
to the phrase "long-lost brothers."
We went on everything. Everything.
You're not seeing double.
You are, perhaps,
in a moment going to be seeing triple.
I don't know who's who here.
Come on out here, gentlemen.
Come on out.
[audience applauding]
You just had to stop what you're doing
and watch them on every different show.
[audience applauding]
[Schneider] It became a circus.
It became a media circus.
Talk about viral.
I mean, it was viral even then.
You guys have been on the front page
of every newspaper in the world.
[together] True.
[Cervone] People magazine.
Time magazine.
Even the New York Times.
Good Housekeeping.
David, let's begin with you.
Which one's David? I keep forgetting.
-You're Edward.
-Right.
-Okay. Who are you? You're David.
-I'm Bob.
-Oh, you're... I'm sorry. You're Robert.
-[audience laughs]
Robert and Edward.
-Oh, come on.
It was a fairy-tale story.
And people need to hear wonderful things.
These three young men,
they're all seated in the same position.
[audience laughs]
It was kind of amazing.
They really were strangers.
They looked identical to each other,
but they were strangers. Right?
You know,
they really didn't know one another.
But their behaviors were so similar.
Our lives are parallel
to a phenomenal degree.
It's... It's ridiculous.
We're all the same.
As soon as we started
discussing our personalities--
Personalities are the same.
-Our gestures are the same.
-We always talk at the same time.
-I'll start a sentence, he'll finish it.
-We all like Chinese food.
-You were all wrestlers at one time?
-[together] Yes.
You all smoke the same brand
of cigarettes?
[together] Yes.
-What kind of cigarettes do you smoke?
-Marlboro.
-Do you all smoke the same brand?
-[together] Yes.
Do you like the same colors?
[together] Yes.
Yeah, I was curious. How's their taste
in women? Is it similar?
-[together] Yes.
-Definitely.
[audience laughing]
It seems they all like older women.
Somebody said you all liked older women.
[together] Well...
[news anchor]
Another astonishing coincidence
is that each of the brothers grew up
with an adopted sister.
All the girls, now 21 years old.
I can't get over it, I'm telling you.
An extraordinary string of coincidences,
you all have to agree,
-right?
-It's beautiful.
You say you love each other,
but you've only known each other
for such a short time.
-Doesn't matter. It was instantaneous.
-I've known him my whole life.
How long did it take
for you to have that feeling?
-Like that.
-[all snap fingers]
[Schneider] They were more like clones
than they were like brothers.
It was just absolutely astounding
because they grew up in what appeared
to be pretty different households.
[Kellman] We'd been adopted
by a blue-collar family,
a middle-class family,
and a more affluent family.
Bobby's parents...
Bobby's father was a medical doctor.
And his mother was an attorney.
So they were very well-educated.
And they were living in one of the most
prestigious areas of the country.
Eddy's father was a teacher.
He had a college education,
and they lived
in what would be considered...
A middle-class neighborhood.
My family, on paper,
were the least educated.
They were immigrants.
English was a second language to them.
They had a little store.
They were the more blue-collar family.
Um, but my father was just
this incredibly generous, warm guy.
David's father, Richard,
was larger than life.
If you could imagine this guy,
he was a big guy,
with a big cigar always hanging
out of his mouth.
We referred to him as bubele.
[Cervone] He was bubele.
If you know Yiddish,
bubele, it's like love.
It's hugging and it's kissing.
[Shafran] We spent more time
at David's house
than any place else.
Bubele celebrated us like no other person.
He said, "I have two more sons."
When the boys found each other,
it just sort of happened then and there.
Here's this wonderful story,
and that's it.
Nobody questioned what was going on,
except the parents, of course.
[Page] When the families
met up the first time,
there was great anger in all of them
about the fact
that the parents had never been told
that there were two other children.
[Elliott] They didn't tell us a word
when we were adopting.
We knew nothing about the other two
till, uh, the boys met at school.
That was 20 years later.
[Page] The first thing that hit me
was what they lost.
I believe they were six months old
when they were separated.
If you imagine those three little bodies
lying together
and suddenly the coldness
of being alone in the crib.
It's a terrible deprivation.
[Kellman] I remember being told
by my mother when I was a baby
that I would slam my head
against the wall.
I would... I would basically
knock myself out.
My mother said I would bang my head
on the inside of the crib.
And I would hold my breath
until I passed out.
I believe it was absolutely...
Separation anxiety.
All of us had been adopted
from Louise Wise Services.
[Mike Wallace] Louise Wise Services,
the New York institution
founded back in 1916,
overseen by a board of directors
drawn from New York City's social,
financial, and political elite.
[Kellman] They were the preeminent
adoption agency on the East Coast
for Jewish babies, in particular.
That was the place to go.
What we have felt at Louise Wise Services,
where I have been active
for a great long time,
is that adoptive parents should be told
as much about the background of a child
as is reasonable.
Our parents, they...
They wanted answers.
They were angry.
And they arranged a meeting,
and they, uh, uh...
Six of them went
into Louise Wise Agency...
to try to get some answers
in terms of piecing together
what happened.
[thunder rumbling]
[Alice] There was a meeting
with the top brass at the agency.
And they were asked,
"Is it true that you separated
these boys at birth?"
And they said, "Yes, we did."
"Why?
How could you not tell us?
What did you do?
Why, and how could you?"
[Alice] They said the reason
was because it was hard
to place three children in one home.
[Shafran] The parents had been told
that it was in our best interests
that we'd been split up.
That not every parent
would welcome triplets
and that triplets
would be difficult to place.
Which...
I think, at that moment,
my father blew his stack
and just said,
"We would've taken all three."
There's no question.
And he was furious.
[sighs] Well, the meeting came to an end.
[Shafran] They all left.
They felt like they had gotten nothing.
And my father realized that
he had left his umbrella in there.
And he went back to get the umbrella.
And he walked into the room
to see them breaking open
a bottle of champagne...
And toasting each other
as if they had dodged a bullet.
They looked like they'd just...
Just missed, uh,
getting hurt or killed or what have you.
It was a, uh...
That was memorable.
[Kellman] All of our parents came away
from that meeting angry.
[Shafran] The parents went to some
pretty prestigious New York law firms
and, initially, they were met
with a lot of enthusiasm.
And, um, invariably,
within a short period of time,
were told there's a conflict
and they could not take the case.
They said, "We have a number of associates
who are trying to adopt
through Louise Wise,
and we don't want to ruin their chances."
So that lawsuit was out.
[Kellman] We were too happy
being together to be that angry.
We didn't understand it,
and to a degree, we almost didn't care.
Our heads were in the clouds.
We knew our parents were pissed off,
but it was almost like, well,
that's our parents' thing to do
while we were out partying.
[Shafran] This was New York in 1980.
Drugs were different.
People were different.
Sex was different. Music was different.
[exhales] We just...
We just took advantage
of all those things.
Sex, drugs, rock and roll.
[laughs]
They were running amok
in New York, I'll say.
[Cervone] Studio 54 was cooking.
Limelight. Copacabana.
They were hitting them all.
[Kellman] New York loved us.
New York loved us.
All the newspapers
were following the boys around,
no matter where we went.
[Kellman] I remember
one morning walking in
and my mother throwing the New York Post
at me, at the kitchen table, saying,
"I gotta look at the paper to find out
where you were last night?" [laughs]
[Alice] The boys thought
they were going to be stars,
and actually they did star
in one movie. [laughs]
[Kellman] Walking down the street,
all of a sudden we hear,
"Guys! Guys! You're the guys!
Could you please be in my movie?
Please be in my movie."
We didn't know who she was,
and she was... She was Madonna.
They stood on the side and ogled her.
Pretty soon we got an apartment together,
the triplets' apartment.
The triplets' apartment, hmm!
It's like if you had
the most bachelor apartment times three.
The liquor store used
to deliver the liquor.
At one point, Eddy had appendicitis.
He had no insurance.
And so he checked
into the hospital as Bobby
and had his appendix taken out, as Bobby.
I hope to this day,
Bobby's appendix stays pretty healthy.
[Shafran] Between working together,
playing together,
going out together,
going on dates together, living together,
from the time we met till...
Well, till later, there was nothing,
nothing that could keep us apart.
[Ilene Shafran] I feel like I was
the first serious girlfriend.
Initially,
I couldn't really tell them apart,
and I would bump into them,
and I wasn't quite sure which one
I was going out with, so...
Bob has this very raw,
natural type of intelligence
that I think I was attracted to.
I always thought David was, um...
The best, right, of the three of them.
I've said it before.
You know, "I got the pick of the litter."
Without a doubt,
Eddy was the, um, handsomest
of all the three triplets, yeah.
Of course, I'm partial,
but, you know, I adored him.
When I met him,
he was the last holdout.
The Casanova of the three.
And I said, "Oh, boy,
this guy's a real bachelor, like, player."
But he was so warm in his smile,
and he had wonderful,
beautiful hands, soft hands.
And when I shook his hand,
I mean, I just...
You know, I just fell in love with him.
I'm from a big, colorful
Irish-Catholic family,
and he was a Jewish guy.
When he came to the house
for the first time,
he looked at my dad.
And he said, "I don't know
if you know this, Mr. Shanley.
I've been seeing Brenda every night
pretty much since
the first day I met her."
And I thought, "Oh, my God,
my dad knows that, you know,
we're together every night."
And my dad just sort of, you know,
looked at me like "Okay."
And that was Eddy.
-I do.
-[glass shatters]
-[applause]
We love you.
[Brenda] Everyone loved him.
If there was a scale,
Bobby would be reserved,
David would be middle,
and Eddy was just the lovable,
mushy, huggable, funny...
You know, he just exuded warmth and love.
[babbling]
Hi.
[Brenda] Jamie's first Thanksgiving
with Daddy.
[indistinct chattering]
Hi. Look at this girl, Daddy.
Yes, Daddy.
Daddy decided to show up
and make a special guest appearance.
-[laughing]
-Yay!
Happy birthday, dear Jamie
Happy birthday to you
[Brenda] He loved family gatherings.
[Galland] Yay!
[Luchs] You know,
Eddy really, really loved
being around David and Bobby.
Eddy seemed to get the most
out of the three of them meeting,
for whatever reason.
[Brenda] He wanted his brothers and him
to have a beautiful life
and everyone to get along.
And he wanted everyone
to be one big family.
[Kellman] Eddy was absolutely
the driving force
in terms of, uh, leading the search
for our birth mother.
He got a fever,
and he just wanted to do it.
And Alan was also rallying
'cause it was just
an exciting thing to do.
[Luchs] We figured, what are the chances
of having triplets born,
in New York,
on July 12, 1961?
We figured out
that New York Public Library
shared birth records.
[Kellman] We each grabbed a book
and went page by page
by page by page by page.
And within a couple of hours,
it was, "Bingo!"
Male, male, male.
Three in a row.
All born July 12, 1961.
[Kellman] Right next to it,
birth mother's last name.
The first meeting was a bar
on, like, 47th Street.
It was like her local neighborhood
watering hole
on the East Side.
And it was awkward.
She told the story of what happened.
Um, unfortunately,
it wasn't a romantic story.
She was a young girl.
Basically, prom night knock-up type thing.
[Luchs] I don't think
she ever got over the fact
that she had triplets
and had to give them up.
You know, to us, at 19,
you drink like a fish,
you think you're invincible.
But we found it a little concerning
that she was...
Pretty much keeping up with us,
you know.
Um, the apple doesn't fall
that far from the tree,
and if that's the tree,
I was less than thrilled.
And, um, we had our parents already.
So we met her and it was okay.
But she was not a particularly
close part of our lives.
We were all young
and starting our marriages and careers.
[together] Hi. Welcome to Triplets.
[reporter] David Kellman,
Edward Galland, and Robert Shafran
are identical triplets.
Now they run a New York restaurant
called, what else?
You guessed. Triplets.
[man] Welcome. Hello.
Welcome. Welcome.
[Kellman] We had a lot of people
who were coming for us.
They came to see the triplets.
They wanted to be waited on
by one of the triplets.
We served vodka, frozen blocks of ice,
and we'd get the whole room
up and dancing.
[indistinct chattering]
It was like this big party going,
this big bar mitzvah.
Triplets become wildly successful
owning a restaurant
in the SoHo district of New York City.
We did over a million dollars
the first year.
That's when things kinda got funky.
[Lawrence Wright] In the mid-'90s,
I started working on a story
for The New Yorker magazine
about identical twins reared apart.
I've always thought what would it be like
if you turned the corner one day
and you saw yourself.
In the process of my research,
I came across
this obscure scientific article.
It referenced this secret study
in which identical siblings
had been separated.
I was shocked and intrigued.
They were separating
identical babies at birth...
For the purpose
of this scientific experiment.
And these babies had all come
from one adoption agency in New York City.
[Domnitz] The first thing
out of my mouth was, "Were you adopted?"
[Shafran] There I am. This can't be real.
[Cervone] Twins separated at birth.
[Tom Brokaw] Eddy and Robert
and David reunited after 19 years.
It's beautiful.
[Kellman] Blue-collar family,
a middle-class family,
and a more affluent family.
[Wise] Adoptive parents should be told
as much as is reasonable.
[Kellman] Something was just not right.
[Alice] They were breaking open
a bottle of champagne
as if they had dodged a bullet.
[Kellman] All of us were adopted
from Louise Wise.
[reporter] Louise Wise...
And these babies had all come
from Louise Wise Services.
[Shafran] Lawrence Wright called me
and he told me all about the experiment.
And I said, "This is like Nazi shit."
It was kind of like reality
hitting, like, a tidal wave.
We were a science experiment.
These people split us up
and studied us like lab rats.
We didn't recognize this stuff
until it was put in our face,
until it was in newsprint.
But there were clues in the past.
I remember from a very young age,
people would come to the house...
Usually a young man and a young woman.
And they had me taking tests.
They did IQ tests,
personality inventory tests.
They did eye-hand coordination tests.
I do remember people
coming to the house...
Having tests done.
Square pegs and round holes.
Rorschach inkblot tests.
"What does this mean to you?"
That kind of stuff.
[Brenda] Eddy told me
that when he was younger,
he remembers people watching him
and taking notes,
and they would ask him questions,
and he would get frustrated
with the questions.
And he remembers
they were videotaping him.
I remember the filming
more than anything else.
I remember having
Super 8 mm films taken of me
when I was on a swing set
or on the slide.
Every single time they came, they filmed.
Riding my bike. Throwing a ball.
And they wanted to see
how many times I could,
you know, go on my pogo stick,
roller-skating, throwing a Frisbee,
shooting a bow and arrow.
You know, they had my attention.
I was performing.
The stuff they did
would be more complex as I got older.
[Shafran] I felt weird about it.
I didn't really understand
why they needed to come so often
and why were they asking me
all these questions.
Somewhere around age nine or ten,
I started becoming
less comfortable with it,
and it was kinda like,
"Mom, do I still have to do this?
Do I still have to do this?"
[Shafran] When our parents adopted us,
they were each told
that we were being followed
as part of a normal study
of the development of adopted children.
They had no idea
that we had been separated.
[Alice] The agency said the children
that were born in this period of time
were all going to be
in a normal study of adopted children.
And, uh...
As far as we knew, that was it.
This was a new thing,
they were going to follow up
with all the children.
And at the time, we accepted it.
[Kellman] You're talking
about a group of people
that went and held a baby...
And did psychological testing
on a six-month-old baby.
And then went to another house
to see his brother,
and then went to another house
and did this over years
and years and years and years
with full knowledge
that we were within
a hundred-mile radius...
And not knowing each other.
It's just... It's unconscionable.
Who would think
that anybody would be evil enough
to come up with something like this?
[Wright] In the process of my research,
I learned that the person
really in charge of the study
was Dr. Peter Neubauer.
Very distinguished psychiatrist
in New York,
director of the Freud archives.
He was an Austrian refugee
from the Holocaust,
and he set up shop in New York
and became, you know,
one of the great men
of psychiatry in America.
What I learned is that the people
at the Louise Wise Agency
were separating identical siblings,
and then a team of scientists,
led by Neubauer, would follow them.
But it wasn't just the triplets.
There were others.
After my article came out,
another twin set discovered themselves.
And here they are now.
-I appreciate you coming on today.
-Our pleasure.
-Paula and Elyse.
-[audience applauding]
Paula Bernstein and Elyse Schein
are on the show.
The story is incredible.
Is that the way to tell it?
It's funny. I mean,
we say if it hadn't happened to us,
we wouldn't believe it.
-This is a Disney movie.
-[both laugh]
It's a little darker than a Disney movie.
I was at home in my apartment in Brooklyn
with my two-year-old daughter,
and the phone rings,
and I'm just, "La-da-da,"
and I answer the phone,
and it was the adoption agency.
"We've got some news for you.
You've got a twin sister,
and she's looking for you."
You were both editors
of your high school paper.
You both went to film school.
Well, it's funny, because I don't know
if you noticed, but--
-But mannerisms are inherited.
-Mannerisms seem to be... [laughs]
I contacted the adoption agency.
I asked them,
"Well, why we were separated?"
That's the million-dollar question
in this story.
And they said for a twin study.
We felt that
our lives had been orchestrated
by these, um, scientific researchers
who put their scientific needs,
research needs or desires,
their career interests
before the needs of us
and the interests of us
and the other twins
and triplets who were separated.
[Wright] Nobody is sure of how many
identical twins were involved
in this study.
I was told six to eight,
but we don't really know.
When you have a study like this,
normally you produce the results
and you show how large the sample is
and all this sort of thing.
But this study was never published,
which makes it all the more intriguing.
[Kellman] We did have an attorney
try to get us some of the study records.
We received a small amount of information.
It was very dry, technical data
that didn't really shed any light
on the reasons for the study.
It was garbage.
I don't know what the results were
or if there ever were results
'cause I never saw them.
[Wright] They're trying
to conceal what they did
from the people they did it to.
Why?
[Alice] I mean,
what was the purpose of it?
The study was never published.
Why?
My name is Natasha Josefowitz,
and I was Peter Neubauer's
research assistant.
So, come on in.
Would you like a cup of coffee?
Here are some of my buddies.
Michelle Obama and I.
She is very tall.
I'm like a little shrimp next to her.
I come up to her right here.
This is Obama three years ago,
and here he is holding my latest book.
I have to tell you, I said,
"Barack, I love you."
He said, "I love you too,"
and he gave me a kiss on this cheek.
[inhales sharply] Yeah.
This is Robert Redford and Al Gore.
And this is Errol Flynn
and me when I was 18.
I thought he was a hoot.
Picassos.
When are we gonna talk
about the twin study?
[clears throat]
You know, you need to know
I am not part of the team.
I am a peripheral person.
I just do the hearsay.
The first time I heard
about the twin study,
it was still just a dream in Peter's head.
[interviewer] What was he like?
Hmm. Sexy,
nice-looking, interesting.
His background was very Freudian.
Anna Freud, Freud's daughter,
would often come and visit with him.
He was very focused on wanting
to make a difference in children's lives.
Peter started thinking,
"Wouldn't it be interesting
to have a study of mothers
who wanted to give up their children,
who happen to be identical twins...
And then could be separated at birth?
If we could put them
in two totally different environments,
we would put to rest the dilemma,
nature or nurture, forever."
Now, you may think, "Oh, this is terrible.
You know, how could you do this?"
You have to put yourself back
in the late '50s and '60s.
This was not something
that seemed to be bad.
Nobody said... [gasps]
"To take children apart, how terrible."
That was not at all in anyone's thoughts.
This was a very exciting time.
Psychology was just beginning
to be the big deal
that everybody's talking about.
This was all in terms of research.
An opportunity.
[Wright] One of the great questions
that science has ever asked is,
"How do we become the people we are?
How much of nature
versus how much of nurture
shapes us into the people
that we become?"
[Josefowitz] I did not go
and do the research.
But I would hear about it
because I was in the office.
What they found out was incredible.
Our lives are parallel
to a phenomenal degree.
It's... It's ridiculous.
We're all the same.
As soon as we started
discussing our personalities--
Personalities are the same.
-Our gestures are the same.
-We always talk at the same time.
You were raised in different homes.
[together] True.
I did not believe
that it'd be as much hereditary
as it was.
That was more than any of us thought.
-I'll start a sentence, he'll finish it.
-We all like Chinese food.
-You were all wrestlers at one time?
-[together] Yes.
-You all smoke cigarettes?
-Do you all smoke the same brand?
-[together] Yes.
-Do you like the same colors?
How's their taste in women? Is it similar?
-[together] Yes.
-Definitely.
[audience laughing]
We are moved to behaviors
that we are totally unconscious about.
You were both editors
of your high school paper.
You both went to film school.
I don't know if you noticed, but--
-But mannerisms are inherited.
-Mannerisms seem to be... [laughs]
-Seem to be inherited.
-[Elyse] It's kind of freaky.
It's disturbing. We don't like that.
People don't like to hear it.
They say, "I have free will."
We would prefer that we have
some influence over our lives.
Wouldn't you rather know that?
That you have some control over this?
And so finding out...
"Never mind. Doesn't matter what you do."
So, I think it's upsetting to people
to see how little influence they have,
how little control they have.
We don't like that. We fight that.
[Wright] If the conclusions of the study
were so shocking...
And so earthshaking,
why haven't you published your study?
There's a lot that we don't know.
We have anecdotes
that are very provocative.
But we don't know. We don't have the data.
[Josefowitz] I don't know
what happened to the study.
I moved to Switzerland in 1965
and lost touch with what was going on.
All that research should be seen.
This study was the first,
and it's also the last.
It will never be done again.
It will never be replicated.
It's monumental.
It's a monumental study.
In terms of their motivation
that they used to justify what they did,
I don't even care,
because I... I... I...
It's not justifiable what they did.
[Page] You know what?
Coming from the Holocaust,
our family...
Has a knowledge of that
when you play with humans...
You do something very wrong.
And I really believe that
because of this research,
these three boys
did not have happy endings.
What were some of the similarities
you found that you had
as you were all growing up
in your own respective households?
We all smoked the same cigarettes
when we met.
We all wrestled in high school,
in junior high.
We all loved the same food.
Uh, our taste in women was similar.
What are some of the stranger things
you found out you had in common?
Any other more surprising discoveries?
Well, sometimes when you think
you're having a unique thought or idea,
and you go to share it with someone,
and they say, "Your brother just told me."
-It's a little annoying.
-[Kellman] It's funny.
It's a little annoying. It's unnerving.
[Kellman] Being in business
with my brothers
damaged our relationship.
There were conflicting work ethics.
And my father had passed away.
He really anchored us together as a group
and kept the peace, so to speak.
[Brenda] They started to argue
like kids would argue.
You know?
And they didn't have that opportunity,
that gift of being able
to be brothers for 18 years.
When you are living
in a family of children,
you learn how to adjust to each other.
If I don't like the way you do this,
I can get angry
or I can learn to compromise.
But they met as adults.
And had never learned
how to live with each other.
As things went on,
things got more complicated.
And as things got more complicated,
what ended up happening was I left.
[Kellman] When Bobby left the business,
Eddy and I felt that
we were being betrayed.
Bobby felt that he was being pushed out.
Either way, it did major, major damage
to the relationship.
[Luchs] I think that took
an extreme toll on Eddy,
more so than, I think, David and Bobby.
Eddy was always the one
who just wanted to have
everybody be at peace together,
and Eddy was very upset about it.
He was kind of crushed about it.
It was eating at him.
[Brenda] He dearly loved them,
and he wanted his brothers to be together.
He was just not really sure
how to deal with it all.
And you're just seeing a lot more, uh,
kind of up-and-down behaviors,
erratic behaviors.
[Brenda] Eddy's growing a beard.
-Fur face, that's me.
-[Brenda laughs]
-[woman] Geez, wake the child.
-Jamie, your daddy is fuzzy.
[laughs wickedly]
You're just seeing a lot more
unnatural highs and lows.
He would call people and...
At bizarre hours of the evening,
and then they would say,
"I haven't seen or heard
from Eddy in ten years.
Why is he picking up the telephone
and calling me at two o'clock
in the morning?"
You know, those are...
Those are signs.
This was just...
This was more than just somebody
who needed counseling.
This was, like, really something
very, very serious.
[indistinct chatter]
[Kellman] He could be
unbelievably charming.
Hello!
But the downswing was a lot of anger.
Uh, there was just deep, deep darkness.
[Brenda] Manic depression, I think,
was what they eventually said.
It made sense in hindsight.
[dialogue inaudible]
I didn't walk down the aisle
thinking, you know,
"I have a man who is suffering
from manic depression."
People will say, "How could you not know?"
But... [inhales]
He was so unique
and so wonderful and special, you just...
Oh, that was Eddy, you know.
I was advised that
he needed to be in a facility.
I mean, I felt bad that I put him through
this trauma of going into a psych ward
because I had been in a psych ward
and I know how hard it is.
When I was a kid,
I spent my 16th birthday in a psych ward.
We all were really disturbed kids.
We were all under psychiatric care
when we were teenagers.
[Kellman] We all had very challenging...
And dysfunctional teenage years.
[applause]
[woman] Could we ask about personal?
One of you were involved
in a murder, is that right?
Uh... It's up to you guys.
-[Shafran] No, no.
-People magazine, as you know--
One was accused
of being involved in a murder.
And it was me,
who never met this person who was killed.
Never was present, or anything like that.
It was peer pressure.
Friends pressuring me
into covering for them,
telling a story for them to the police.
And that pulled me right into it.
I've never hurt anyone in my life.
-And that...
-We know it. We can feel it.
We can feel it.
[audience applauding]
[Wright] A lot of people in this study
had dysfunctional childhoods.
And some mental problems.
And it raises questions, you know.
If you are a person
who has devoted your life,
like Dr. Neubauer has,
to the study of mental illness,
then, um, is that a factor
that you're researching?
[audience applauding]
The story is incredible.
-This is a Disney movie.
-[both laugh]
It's a little darker than a Disney movie.
When we first met,
we realized we had all these similarities.
We had similar mannerisms.
Um, we both had studied film.
And then we also found out
we both had suffered from depression.
So, this is the letter that I received
from Louise Wise Services.
"You were born at 12:51 p.m.
on October 9, 1968
to a 29-year-old Jewish single woman.
She was very intelligent with a high IQ.
She entered college
on a merit scholarship,
but emotional problems
interrupted her attendance.
She had a history
of voluntary hospitalizations
for emotional problems.
Although I have not been able
to locate the original medical reports,
secondary sources noted
that your mother's diagnosis
was schizophrenia."
It was really disturbing to read
that my birth mother had been
in and out of institutions.
I started finding out more
about the other twins
and triplets in the study.
And it turns out that not only
had many of them struggled
with mental health problems,
but that their birth parents
had mental health issues.
And their adoptive families
had never been told.
[interviewer] How possible is it that,
you know, your mother had
mental health issues?
Um...
I don't think they were severe.
I... I think that she was, uh...
She may have had some minor...
Minor issues, um...
She may have had some...
A little bit more than minor issues.
[Wright] Were the scientists
purposely choosing children
whose biological parents
had mental illness?
And placing them
into different homes to see
is mental illness heritable?
[Kellman] Eddy was in the hospital for...
I think it was three weeks.
And then he came back to work
at the restaurant.
I wasn't there.
David was with him all the time.
I think maybe he can give you
better detail about it.
I was running the kitchen.
Eddy wasn't in.
I was running the kitchen,
he was running the front of the house.
That's the way it worked.
And I didn't know where he was.
And he lived across the street.
[Janet] So David called me
from the restaurant
and he asked me
to look out the window
to see if Eddy's car was in the driveway,
because if it were in the driveway,
we knew that he was home.
So, the car was in the driveway.
And I said to David, um...
"Do you want me to go over there?"
And David said, "Yes."
[clears throat]
And she called me back a few minutes later
and her voice was trembling and shaking.
She said, "You've gotta come home."
And I said, "Why?"
And she said, "Please,
you've just got to come home."
Um...
And I, uh...
I pulled up.
We lived across the street,
and I pulled up, kind of, just...
Cop cars were all there, and I,
just kind of pulled up on...
And, you know, blocking half the street,
left the door open
and started running into the house,
and the cops grabbed me
and they wouldn't let me come in.
They said, "You don't...
You don't wanna see this.
You can't see this.
You... You don't wanna see this."
And that's when I knew he was gone.
I told Bobby, "I need to talk to you."
And it's as if he... He kind of knew.
He kind of knew,
before the words came out of my mouth.
Eddy committed suicide.
Eddy shot himself.
He took his own life.
I don't remember who told us.
I just remember darkness.
[Kellman] We buried him on Father's Day.
[voice trembling] I gave the eulogy.
And I don't remember everything I said.
But I do remember saying
that my brother, Eddy,
could light up a room with his smile.
Why Eddy? Why Eddy? Why not me?
I've asked myself that a hundred times.
I'd rather it was me than Eddy.
I... I don't know why Eddy,
and why not me.
Maybe just because...
I don't know. I just don't know.
I... I... I can't answer this.
[interviewer] Thank you, Bobby.
Oh, you're welcome.
[birds chirping]
[water running]
[Kellman] I'd like to know the truth
about the experiment.
My understanding,
within this small group
of twins that were separated
and studied...
There was more than one suicide.
It's almost impossible
just to be a coincidence.
[Cervone] Given Eddy's mental illness...
Who knows what's in their DNA?
[Kellman] If they have anything
conclusive that is in any way predicting
anything in the future
that I need to know about,
I want to know about it.
[Shafran] There is still so much
that we don't know.
I have more questions than I have answers.
[Wright] One of the things
about being a journalist
is you don't know
what you're going to find out.
Sometimes you know
what you didn't find out,
which is frustrating,
like with this story.
Well, I didn't get to the bottom of it
because I never got to see the study.
As no one has, you know.
That would be the bottom of it.
But that's why this is so tantalizing.
Here's the research that I kept
from when I was writing about twins.
It's been a while
since I've had a look in this box.
This is interesting.
Mini cassettes.
Before he passed away,
I managed to talk to Dr. Neubauer.
He was reluctant.
He had not ever spoken about it,
to my knowledge.
All right. Let's see what he has to say.
[cassette whirring]
[Wright on tape recorder]
Okay, I've got it on now.
How did this study come about?
[Neubauer on tape] I tell you,
I would rather not want to speak about it.
[Wright] Oh, really. Why?
[Neubauer] Until we have published it.
[Wright] Oh, uh-huh.
When do you plan to publish it?
[Neubauer] Well, maybe, we...
We would publish in about a year,
a year and a half from now.
He was certainly elusive.
He was protecting something.
[Wright] Well, tell me a little bit about
the scope of the study
and how many people were involved in it?
[Neubauer] The study was only based on
a small number of identical twins,
separated at birth.
For many, many reasons,
I don't want to talk about that now.
We had to stop it
because it became too expensive.
[Wright] Who was your primary support?
[Neubauer] Oh, some private
family foundations.
Uh, once in a while we got
some money from Washington.
[Wright] Okay.
Private charities and Washington.
What does that mean?
And I don't know, you know,
where their funding came from.
-Okay, thanks again for your time.
-[Neubauer] Bye-bye.
[line disconnects]
[beeps]
I think that there's a great deal
of sensitivity about this story.
There's a lot of powerful people
who would like
to have this story silenced.
[interviewer] What happened to the study
as far as you're aware?
[Wright] Before Neubauer died in 2008,
he left all the research materials
in an archive at Yale University.
Neubauer placed it under seal
for decades and decades.
So far as I know,
nobody's been able to access it.
[Kellman] Uh, what do we have here?
Wow.
This is the Yale University website,
and this appears to be
the Guide to Adoption Study Records
of the Child Development Center.
Sixty-six boxes filled with information.
Charts, films and tapes,
and research findings.
Home visits. That's a big one.
It says that the dates of the study
were from 1960 to 1980.
I guess our reunion
kind of closed the study.
"Information about Access.
The records are restricted until 2066."
It's sealed.
So, they did all that they did
to have this whole list tucked away
in a dusty library somewhere,
where nobody can touch it.
"Researchers wishing to use these records
before this date
must secure written authorization
from the Jewish Board of Family
and Children's Services."
[keyboard clacking]
The Jewish Board was a parent organization
of the Child Development Center
run by Peter Neubauer.
My understanding is that they're a very,
very powerful organization
with very deep political connections.
[line ringing]
[woman on recording] Thank you for calling
the Jewish Board of Family
and Children's Services.
[man] Hello.
Yes, hi. My name is David Kellman, um,
and apparently, I was, uh,
one of the subjects of a study
run by the Child Development Center
many years ago.
And it's being kept at Yale University.
-Mmm-hmm.
-And, um, on their website it says that
I would need permission from the board
in order to gain access to those records.
And somehow
the receptionist got me to you.
[man] Huh. Okay.
Um, I'm... I'm not aware
of any of that stuff
or when the study was,
but I can forward...
There have been a number of journalists,
and as far as I know,
some of the twins
that were involved in this study
have tried to gain access
to this material.
So far as I know, they haven't been able
to see the results of this study.
Is there a way that I can go directly
to someone that would
be able to provide access to me,
as I was one of the subjects
within the study?
[Wright] If anybody should have the right
to see all this material,
it's the people that were actually
the subject of the study.
They should know what was learned.
[man on phone] I mean, I have no idea
who would even be the one
to ask right now.
I would need to look into that.
Okay, so you're the first line of defense,
so to speak.
[man] Eh, I guess, yeah. [laughs]
Okay. I will send an e-mail to you.
I'll put... The subject line
is going to be, uh, "Twin Studies."
Gotcha.
[Kellman] Louise Wise Services
is long closed.
Peter Neubauer passed away.
And yet we still don't know
exactly what they were looking for
or what they found out.
[Dr. Lawrence Perlman]
I'm a clinical psychologist,
and I was a research assistant
on Peter Neubauer's study.
I believe I am the only person
who worked on this study
who is willing to go on record
about what was done.
I was 24.
This was essentially my first job.
You had to be careful
to not let on that, uh,
"Gee, you look
just like your twin brother."
Then I would've been fired
on the spot, right?
[laughs]
It was a little tempting.
Yeah, there was a little bit
of temptation.
It's like, "Hey, I know your twin.
I saw somebody a week ago
who was exactly like you."
The question of whether
I feel guilty is interesting
because I never felt a responsibility.
I came on after this was designed.
However, I was a participant,
so you could say, you know,
I was ethically compromised by that.
In retrospect,
uh, I think
it was undoubtedly ethically wrong.
I got some notes here.
Okay.
[sighs]
[grunts]
These are my actual original notes,
copies of psychologicals that I did.
[interviewer] And who...
Who in particular are in these files?
Well, I have the triplets.
Hmm. Oh, here we go.
So, I'm not gonna mention the name,
but, uh...
[clears throat]
"He's a loud, energetic boy.
His need to establish his autonomy
takes the form of showing off
both his intelligence and his strength
and putting down others,
including his parents."
[chuckles]
"Yeah, this one's eager
to show off his new bicycle
and all of his sports equipment
while I filmed him.
"He was very intense
in his play and got quite...
Rough."
Yeah, this kid had some problems.
Hyperaggressiveness.
Okay, so apparently,
"These parents are not cognizant
of his problems,
nor are they able to help him
understand his weaknesses
and establish more appropriate control
over his actions."
So, I didn't think the parents
were very tuned in
to the struggles
this youngster was having.
[Perlman]
What were the findings of the study?
I have no idea because
I left the study after ten months
and the results were never published.
All I have is my little, tiny piece.
It's a mystery. It's a huge loss.
All this important scientific data
is just buried in these archives.
[interviewer]
So, some people have speculated
that the purpose of the study,
ultimate purpose,
was looking at mental health.
I... I... There was...
[clears throat]
There was never a mention
of mental health
of the biological parents...
[mutters]
When I was in the study.
We were not interested in mental health.
That's not what we were interested in.
We were looking for differences
in parenting.
We wanted to understand
parenting practices
and how it would affect development.
[Wright] So, you're saying
they were interested more
in the family dynamics?
But they couldn't have known that.
They didn't know
how the families were going to interact
with this newly-adopted child.
The only way they could possibly know
about the family dynamics
was if they already had a child
placed in that family.
[news anchor] Another astonishing
coincidence in this story
is that each of the brothers grew up
in their families with an adopted sister.
All the girls, now 21 years old.
[Perlman] The triplets,
they all had an older sibling.
They were placed in families
where there was an older adopted child
that had been placed by Louise Wise.
That was part of the design.
[sighs]
Good to see you. [chuckles]
Good to see you.
[interviewer] I'd just like
to show you guys a clip.
It's Lawrence Perlman,
who was a researcher on the study.
[Perlman on video]
What were the findings of the study?
I have no idea
because they were never published.
We were looking for differences
in parenting.
We wanted to understand
parenting practices
and how it would affect development.
The triplets were placed in families
where there was an older adopted child
that had been placed by Louise Wise.
That was part of the design.
[interviewer]
How do you feel watching that?
[exhales sharply]
Like a lab rat.
It only just makes it that much...
-It just makes it much more duplicitous.
-That much worse.
They're not just studying the kids,
but they're studying the parents.
So, they did, in fact, know
the parenting style of each parent.
So, this was not, you know,
obviously it was far
from a random selection.
They knew exactly
who they had chosen to place
each one of us with
when they called the Gallands
and the Kellmans
and the Shafrans.
[Alice] In terms of
how they parented their children,
the three families were quite,
quite different.
Uh, David's father stood out.
There was nobody in the world
like his son.
He was so proud of him.
Whatever he did was wonderful.
Bobby's father was very busy,
as a doctor.
And didn't have the time to be with Bobby
that David's father had,
but was as devoted to him as possible.
The most traditional was Eddy's father...
Who was rather strict.
He was the boss.
He made the rules,
and Eddy was supposed to follow.
[Page] Eddy's relationship
with his father...
It couldn't have been good.
And that matters.
[interviewer] And why do you say
it couldn't have been good?
Because otherwise,
I would have known him.
We would have seen him.
Eddy would have talked about him.
This was the last picture
we ever had of Edward.
He was very gregarious.
He got into all the things young boys do.
He wrecked a car
and a few things like that.
But, uh,
I mean, occasionally I disciplined him.
[Brenda] Eddy and his dad
were very different as people.
Eddy was a more artsy kind of kid.
You know, he wasn't into sports.
Elliott had a very strong
militaristic kind of approach to life.
Very traditional.
He was a teacher.
He was all about punctuality.
I was a strict disciplinarian,
and my children, unfortunately,
had me as a strict disciplinarian too.
[Brenda] Eddy said he always
sort of didn't feel like
he fit in with his family.
He always felt like...
Like he wasn't in the right place.
[interviewer]
How much did you have any sense
that Edward was unhappy?
He didn't discuss his problems with me.
We were a rather quiet family.
We didn't tell our problems
to one another.
We protected each other.
It was a nice family.
Some people are just not a good fit.
It wasn't his father's fault.
Elliott did what he believed
to be best as a parent.
They were just different people.
I got the phone call from...
I believe it was Bobby.
And he told me to sit down.
And I said, "No need to."
And he told me about it.
And then,
standing right there,
I went over to my wife
and told her Edward had committed suicide.
And we stood there
for quite a while, crying.
And...
That was it.
I often wondered whether
I didn't teach him something.
Because of the way he left.
I don't know.
Maybe I didn't teach him something.
How to live life or something.
That bothers me occasionally.
[Cervone] Why did the boys' lives
turn out completely different?
I don't need to read any books.
I don't need to read any studies.
I saw it firsthand with those three boys.
It's all about nurture.
[audience applauding]
These three young men,
they're all seated in the same position.
[audience laughs]
[Perlman] We found a lot of similarities
because that's what people
were looking for.
They smoke the same kind of cigarettes.
You say, "Oh, my God!
They're smoking Marlboros.
That's amazing!"
What you're not looking for
are their differences.
I can't get over it, I'm telling you.
-You all wrestled at one time?
-[together] Yes.
We found the ways that we were alike,
and we emphasized them,
and we wanted to be alike.
We were falling in love with each other.
[Brenda]
I think there were superficialities.
They liked the same things,
and they had similar interests,
but deep down, they were different.
They were not a case study
of biology being destiny.
[Wright] I've come to believe
genes and the environment are...
Close competitors.
You could say that
we drift in the direction
that our genes tell us to go.
But it doesn't mean
you are destined to be one person
or another.
[Kellman] I believe that
I'm still here today
because of the foundation
that was given to me by my parents.
I believe that
absolutely made the difference
in terms of struggling with
whatever demons I struggle with.
[Page] I believe nature
and nurture both matter.
But I think nurture
can overcome nearly everything.
[Wright] Because the study's
never been published,
we simply don't know definitively
how many people's lives
were separated in this fashion.
There may be still twins out there
who still don't know that they're twins.
There's probably at least four individuals
who were subjects in this study
who don't know that they have a twin.
If they know
that there are still twins out there
that are missing out on life...
It boggles the mind.
There's two ways of thinking about it.
These people really should know
that there is a twin.
Or, oh, my God,
these people should not know
that they were used this way.
That will make them so upset.
Maybe this is why the study
cannot be published as yet,
until they're gone.
It really opens up the possibility
anybody can just walk around the corner
and discover
that you have a twin out there.